# Stock-Price-Predictor-Using-Deep-Learning

In this project, I aim to use various different Machine Learning and Deep Learning algorithms and models to predict a stock's closing price on a day based on the stocks' closing prices from 60 days (2 months) prior to the current day (though the LSTM and Transformer models would, in fact, use all the days from the start of the dataset). If I do manage to train a very accurate model, I will be able to accomplish my goal of helping investors (and the general public) make large sums of profit by trading in the stock market. By predicting a company's future stock price, one can make a decision about whether to go long (buy low now and sell high in the future) or short (sell high now through borrowing shares of the stock and buy low in the future) on the stock. Knowing the direction in which the stock will move in the future will undoubtedly lead to high amounts of profits. But, in order to maximise your profits, knowing the exact stock price in the future helps since you can make a sound judgement about how many shares of the stock you wish to buy and how much risk you are willing to take (if the model predicts the stock price in the future to be way higher than the current price, you would be willing to take more risk and buy more shares of the stock).

Before I dive into the specific details about my project, I would like to give some background about trading stocks and the stock market. It is quite well-known that a share of a company's stock essentially represents a small ownership of the public side of a company. Your ownership percentage is determined by the number of shares you own of the stock divided by the total number of shares of the stock publicly available to trade. Since the stock prices of almost all public companies tend to fluctuate a lot in both directions, investors and the general public have been buying and selling stocks for a long time now in hopes of making a positive return. With the onset of the techonological revolution and the development of areas such as Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence, most big banks and small trading and investment firms nowadays rely on machine learning based quantitative models and computational power to trade in the stock market.

Automation in trading (namely algorithmic trading) has become very popular in recent years, and is known to yield better results that manual or systematic trading (even though algorithms can’t really factor in market sentiment and market shocks most of the times). Although a lot of work has already been done in terms of training Machine Learning models to predict future stock prices, less has been done with regards to comparing these trained Machine Learning models. I believe that through this project, I will be able to provide the finance industry and people/organizations interested in trading with great insight into which Machine Learning models are ideal to predict future stock prices so that they can go ahead and make large sums of profit in the stock market or basically any other securities’ markets. Furthermore, a lot of people have already looked at how trends in a stock's closing price (the price of the stock when the market closes on a trading day) can be used to predict future closing prices of the stock. Even though I will be mainly looking into this, I would also like to discuss a possible extension to my project by looking at how trends in the stock's High price (the highest price a stock attains on a trading day) and Low price (the lowest price a stock attains on a trading day) can be used to predict the stock's future closing prices. This is something that a lot of professionals have not looked into, and I believe that this is something that is definitely worth considering.

Now let's get into the specific details of my project implementation. As described in my Project Plan, I will be using the yFinance Python library to obtain the time series stock data for a company. Note that yFinance is an open-source Python library that allows us to acquire stock data from the Yahoo Finance website without any cost. I will be obtaining the stock price data of one company (Morgan Stanley) for approximately the past 6-7 years and storing the data in a Pandas DataFrame. I am working with only one company here in order to keep the project simple and not make it too complicated, especially since models trained on one company's stock price data may not work well for another company's stock price prediction. Furthermore, I will be comparing the following three machine learning models in this project: Random Forest Regressor (Ensemble Model), Long Short-Term Memory Recurrent Neural Network (Deep Learning Model), and Transformer (Self-Attention-based Deep Learning Model). I will be comparing the performance of these three models based on their accuracy in predicting a particular day's stock price as well as the time it takes to set-up and train the models.

After training and testing each of my three models, I will need to compare their performance through my three main evaluation methods. The first method would be to check how far each model correctly predicted the direction in which the stock's price would move. Since there is no pre-defined library fucntion for this in Python, I will be defining my own function for this first part of the evaluation. I would like to see an accuracy score of above 50% for each of my models in this stage of the evaluation. In the second stage of the evaluation, I will be checking how far the models' predicted stock price values are from the true stock price values. I will be achieving this by calculating the root mean squared error (rmse) score of the trained models' predictions. In the third stage, I will be comparing the time efficiency of the initialization and training of each of the four models using the time() function in the time library in Python. Overall, I would expect the Transformer model to have the highest accuracy score/rmse score since it is the most complex model out of the 3 models, whereas I would expect the Random Forest model the have the best time efficiency (fastest initialization and training) since it is the least complex model out of the 3 models.

All of the documentation of my efforts and results will be done in this Jupyter notebook itself. My efforts will be reflected by the code I write (for importing libraries, importing the dataset, training and testing the models, etc) in the code chunks in this notebook as well as the comments and descriptions (using markdown and '#') I include amongst my code and output to make my project more comprehensible. All my results (from testing and evaluating the models) will be included and shown within the notebook itself, and I will also be following the result outputs with my own descriptive analysis of the results in markdown cells. I also plan to include several graphs and diagrams in the project in order to help visualize my initial dataset as well as visualize the output of my machine learning models.
